<h2>Abstract</h2>
<p>A prevalent issue that is abundant in modern day society is the development of medical technology that aids amputated citizens in order to attain more convenient day to day lifestyles. This technology is also relevant to the demand of detailed automation work and automates minimal human assistance in industries which in turn would decrease the amount of employees injured during their work shift. A 3D printed bionic arm modeled from scratch will be tested on a variety of tasks a typical hand would handle such as holding genuine items, pouring safe substances, and normal hand gestures. Moreover, an electromyogram will act as a biological input device detecting for electric contractions in muscle which illustrates its capacities as a medical device. These contractions will act as input for controlling servo motors that move the arm in various ways. Its mechanical component consists of a programmed Arduino with several SG90 servo motors and strings to allow the proximal, distal, and intermediate phalanges to bend. The hand is constructed to reach the 27 degrees of freedom relative to a conventional hand. In addition to the electrical component, an EMG sensor will be connected to a circuit to control the motion of the hand. The benchmarks will show its practicality for industrial and medical use.
</p>
<h2>Purpose</h2>
<p>The aim of this project was to use electromyographic signals from motor neurons by measuring action potentials in muscles to create an analog signal. Through this signal one can then map analog to digital, after rectifying data for cardiac interference and other electrical obstructions, to dictate the position of servo motors. The servo motors would then “contract” fishing wire by simply rotating which, through a clever system of pulleys, allows for full control of the arm. The acquisition of electromyography signals are attained from an electrogram which measures for electrical impulses through electrodes place on the muscle, rather the epidermal area of where the muscle would be. The electrical impulses are then amplified and rectified through an integrated circuit. These signals are then read by a microcontroller which feeds analyzed data to internal actuator</p>
<p>Rectification of the data is mainly done through the electromyogram circuit however this simply includes taking the absolute value of the voltage that is acquired. Post-acquisition rectification can be done to smooth out the data by statistical analysis but typically is not done in out experiment. By mapping these electrical signals on an analog scale one can increment the servo motor position in respect to muscle contraction intensity, that is to say the more intense a contraction is the more the servo will turn. Consequently, this gives the motor the ability to imitate actual biological phenomenon. Fishing wire is used as the tendons of this artificial limb, the wire is lined inside the individual phalanges and form a conveyor belt like loop that allows for contractions to clench the hand and to stretch the hand. Physical construction of the prostheses is done through plastic filament and fabricated by a 3d printer. In this way cost of manufacturing the arm is kept low and accessibility is increased. Overall, several systems are implemented together to form a coherent model of the human arm.</p>
<h2>Procedure</h2>
  <p>Initially, the hand was sketch with the reference of one’s right hand and forearm. These measurements must be precise in order for the artificial hand to achieve realistic dimensions. This major draft include the proximal, intermediate, and distal phalanges of the fingers and thumb. Looking at a top view of one’s hand, the width of the phalanges do not have to be recorded due to the implementation of screws with specific length in each phalanges. Be extremely careful with the palm as it’s sketch will eventually form into an irregular polygon with specific angles accounted for. In terms of the forearm, only record the length as its width might vary due to the five servo motors that will take a good portion of its volume.
</p>

<h2>Results and Discussion </h2>
  <p>The biomechanical hand was successful in its creation and worked well in terms of basic functionality. The hand, although having a very primitive form of coordination with the muscle contractions from the the forearm, was able to recreate the motion as performed on the biological hand. We used several objects to test tensile strength, and grip pressure of the arm. Through this testing it was found that there were some design flaws, namely the fact that the proximal  phalanges were too far from the anterior side of the palm. This mitigated overall grip strength of the arm and inhabited the arm from grabbing items despite it having the force to. 
Electrical computations of the signals acquired from the EMG were done either on the Myoware muscle sensor itself, or the Arduino Uno microprocessor.
</p>
<p>
  One of the biggest problems that were presented was the classification of individual fingers. Distinguishing one finger from another was a large issue mainly due in part to the lack of sensors on the forearm. Our model only incorporated one sensor with three channels acquiring signals from the input sensor itself. One of the ways we attempted to solve this issue was by introducing a machine learning model, specifically the use of an extreme learning machine (ELM). The process was broken down into several parts: moving, movement detection, feature and label extraction, dimensionality reduction, and classification; refer to figure 8.
Figure 9. Process of machine learning to classify individual fingers
The proposed recognition system was based off of any electrical contractions detected by the EMG sensor which then classified the data as some type of arra,. The array was converted to an integer number displaying its actual classification and was one hot encoded. The ELM was then deployed to classify different data sets across the board through majority vote. The largest issue with this was the implementation of python machine learning code with the arduino based EMG sensor. It is speculated that the machine learning code would allow for individual finger control from only one sensor as the model itself would classify what finger is being moved and move that finger accordingly. Another issue that was brought up was implentint the python machine learning with arduino code. However the integration of a python module, Nanpy, would have been able to mitigate this issue. Nanpy is a python module that translates arduino code into functional python. The machine learning code would work as a backend and convert the classification into an integer from 0-5, while the Nanpy arduino code would work as frontend signal acquisition and a processing loop. Depending on the integer classification, a specific servo would actuate.
  </p>
<h2>Conclusion</h2>
  <p>he initial goals of this project was to introduce a novel design for a biomechanical hand such that amputees and employers in an industrial setting can apply such technology in order to better enhance the quality of life and productivity. Another goal was to develop a low cost 3d printed myoelectric prosthetic arm. The final design yielded moderately well to good performance and exhibits characteristics of a better design in that much of the features are easily extendable. Over the course of testing the system it is been proven that the design requires minimum maintenance and for the most part proves to be an excellent amateur design when compared against other non-academic designs. Overall, it was shown that implementation of the myoware muscle sensor was insufficient for finger classification but adequate for emg signal acquisition for muscle contractions. Better sensors could have been deployed however then the issue of cost became a concerning problem. One way to avoid the cost issue is to build an emg completely from scratch using differential amplifiers and varying gains either on a breadboard or integrated circuit. The results of the machine learning algorithms and its implementation with the mechanical hand were proven to be inconclusive and not useful for the project. As such, the entire machine learning portion of the project had to be put on hold for further investigation. To conclude, the myoelectric prosthetic arm was a success and it is clearly shown that it functions in the most basic sense of the word as a human hand.
</p>
